{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Public is an access modifier \
\
Main Method is the entry point for any Java code or App\
\
() are for method declaration \
\
Statement is a complete command to be executed and can include one or more expressions. S\
; tells that the line is complete \
\
Declaration Statement is used to define a variable by indicating the data type, and the name and optionally the variable \
\
String Literal is an expression not as variable \
\
Primitive Types\
In Java primitive types are the most basic data types. The int is one of eight primitive types\
Eight primitive types are: boolean, byte, char, short, int, long, float, double.\
\
Java Packages-\
A package is a way to organise your java projects. We can consider them as folders. Companies use their domain names reserved.\
\
Wrapper Classes-\
Java uses the cope if a wrapper class for all eight primitive types - in the case of an int, we can use Integer, and by doing that it gives us ways to perform operations on an int.\
\
Overflow and Underflow in Java-\
If you try and put a value larger than the maximum value in Java, or a value smaller than the minimum value in jJava, then you will get Overflow in the case of the maximum value and an Underflow in the case of the minimum.\
\
Floating Point Numbers-\
They are also known as real numbers . We use a floating point number when we need more precision in calculations.\
Double is more precise and has more precision than the float \
\
Boolean-\
A boolean value allows for two choices True or False, Yes or No, 1 or 0. In Java terms we have a boolean primitive type and it can be set to two values only. True or false. \
\
String-\
A String is a datatype on Java, which is not a primitive type. It\'92s actually a Class but it enjoys a bit of favoritisms in Java to make it easier to use than a regular class.\
A String is a sequence of characters. A String can contain a sequence of characters. A large number of characters. Technically it\'92s limited to the memory or the MAX_VALUE of an int which is 2.14 Billion\
\
Strings in Java are not immutable/ that means you cannot change a String after it\'92s created. Instead what happens is a new String is created .\
\
Operators in Java are special symbols that perform specific operations on one, two or three operands  and return a result\
Operand is used to describe any object that is manipulated by an operator \
\
Expression is formed by combining variables , literals, method return values and operators.\
\
Comments are ignored by thee computer and are added to program to help describe something . Comments are there for humans. Aside describing  something  about a program, comments can be used to temporarily disable code.\
\
If-then statement is the most basic of all the  control flow statements. It tells your program to execute a certain section  of code only if a particular  test evaluates to true. It is known as conditional logic\
\
Conditional Logic uses specific statements in Java to allow us to check a condition and execute certain code  based on whether that condition (the expression) is true or false.\
\
A code block allows more than one statement to be executed - a block of code.\
\
&& and || are Logical AND , OR which operates on the boolean operands. Checking if a given condition is true or false.\
\
The ! Or NOT operator us also known as the logical Complement Operator.\
\
The  ternary operator is a shortcut to assigning one of two variables depending on a given condition\
\
Whitespace is the space in between your expressions , statements, etc\
\
You cannot access variables created in code blocks \{\} outside the \{\} code blocks \
\
}